Important for configuring a directive are the five hooks such a directive has, kind of like lifecycle hooks
on a component,
a directive has also five methods we can hook in to perform things with the element the directive sits
on. The first hook is the bind hook, this is fired as soon as our directive is bound to the element,
so as soon as we get access to the element therefore. Here we get three arguments passed into this method,
the el argument refers to the element the directive sits on, the binding argument refers to the way this
directive is set up so which arguments we may pass in, which modify as you may pass to it, we will see
all of that and vnode refers to the node in the virtual dom,
that's something you will rarely use.
Especially important, the latter two arguments, binding and vnode should be treated as read only, don't
change anything there inside of your directive because that really are things controlled by the vuejs
and not something you should change at runtime.
So this bind hook here occurs once the directive is attached to the element, thereafter we get the
inserted hook,
this of course as soon as it is inserted in the dom,
so as soon as this element alters part of the dom
but we can access it in the first hook already, that's important to understand,
we don't need it to be inserted in the dom to be able to style it or do anything with it,
it will reflect these changes once that is inserted anyways
and there we get the same arguments. Then we get update, update is called whenever the component updates, though
important, the children of that component haven't been updated yet
and here we also get an extra argument, oldVnode.
Well since it updated, we got the new node in the virtual dom and the old node, again
both should be treated as read only as should be binding.
We also got component updated, that is called once the component has been updated
and the children in the component, so once everything has been updated, the arguments are the same as in the
update method. And we got unbind,
that is whenever the directive would be removed and there, we also got the element, the binding and the
current virtual node.
These are the five hooks, I'm going to say right away, you're going to use bind and update the most often
and actually, I will show the whole example with just the bind node which is the important one because
that is the one, well triggering whatever your directive should trigger when applied to an element, right.
So let's see this in action.